In this video I'm going to show you how to configure a router on a stick or an external router that's
connected to allow you to switch that performs that into villaine rodding to allow devices in one line
to communicate with devices in another villaine the typology that we're going to build consists of two
devices.
PC one will configure with an IP address of 10 at one to two to one and the default gateway will be
Rotto one with 10 to 1 to 2 2 5 4 in land to pc 2 will be configured with an IP address of 10 to 1 to
3 to 1 slushed 24 default gateways router 1 IP address 10 1 2 3 2 5 4 in line 3.
So this router will use an 8 to 1 queue trunk to the switch and do the interview LAN rotting so that
a PC one can ping PC to.
In other words we are into Villiam writing between villaine too and we learnt three.
So I've started a new project called Track a Rodda into the workspace and grab an Ethernet switch as
well as TV PC devices.
Now when you start configure it to switch and delete all current interfaces that are all going to be
in VLAN 1 and are going to be configured as access ports.
So we want to start with a new switch configuration support one is going to be an access port in villain
to port two is going to be an access port in violent three port three is going to be a trunk port and
we're going to configure the native villaine as the LAN one.
So that's a switch configuration port one isn't beelined to port today and we land three access ports
port three is going to be an attitude of one queue trunk.
I can now configure the devices and connect them to the switch so fast.
Ethan it is 0 0 0 on our Rodda will be configured into villaine routing
so this host will configures 10 to 1 to 2 1 slushed 24 in violent to
the host we will configure as 12:57 in violent three
and the Rodda
will be to five full in the relevant villans also configure villaine one as the native land on fast
Ethernet 00 on the router.
Now you can obviously make the topology more pretty for lack of a better word.
I'm not going to do that for the sake of time.
So start the devices up
and open console ports to the devices.